# Changelog

## [0.5.2] - 2025-11-14

- Fix `AnonymousAccess` not working if the method `RequestMapping` has no path specified.

## [0.5.1] - 2025-11-14

- Fix `AnonymousAccess` not working if the controller had a path defined in a `RequestMapping` on the controller level.
- Fix `AnonymousAccess` not working if the controller is annotated with `PreAuthorize`.


## [0.5.0] - 2025-11-05

- Added a new annotation `AnonymousAccess` replacing the attribute `publicApis` in the annotation `SecurityRealm` for two reasons;
  - This allows more flexibility regarding request matching, previously it would match any request to that URI path, but this new way, you can specify the HTTP method, content type, and more.
  - It may not, in some situations, make sense, sematically, to define a public api in the definition of a security realm.
- Allow specifying the token TTL for the intermediary tokens (tokens generated by authentication steps which are not final). See docs for more info.
- Renamed the configuration property `security-realm.token-expiration-duration` to `security-realm.fully-authenticated-token-ttl`. 
  - The reason is related to the above-mentioned new feature, so that the name better indicates that it only controls the TTL of the fully authenticated token, not intermediary ones.
- Enhanced warning log messages when some configurations are missing.
- Enhanced docs.
- Internal: Enhanced authentication request matching and request dispatching.

## [0.4.0] - 2025-10-09

- Support websockets.

## [0.3.1] - 2025-05-04

- Fix: support tokens generated before version `0.3.0`.

## [0.3.0] - 2025-05-03

- **Breaking**: Error response from authentication endpoints now has HTTP status `400` instead of `401`.
- **Breaking**: Error response from authentication endpoints now has HTTP body containing only the `error` key; since other fields are irrelevant and should not
  be read by the client in case of error.
- Added `tokenType` and `expiresInSeconds` to success response.
- Added the ability to put extra data (key-value pairs) in the authentication object, which will appear in the authentication response.
- Added optional `errorDescription` to error response, based on if you add it to `SecurityRealmAuthenticationException`.
- Internal enhancements.

## [0.2.1] - 2025-05-03

- Fix the default exception handler for `SecurityRealmAuthenticationException` was not invoked if the user defines a custom `@ControllerAdvice`, even if they
  don't specify a handler for this specific exception, but a super class like `RuntimeException` would block it.
- Fix "library source does not match the bytecode for class".

## [0.2.0] - 2025-05-02

- You can now specify a different JWT signing secret and a TTL for each realm separately (using the `@SecurityRealm` annotation).
- Warn and use auto generated JWT secret instead of failing when the user does not provide `security-realm.signing-secret`.
- Internal enhancements.

## [0.1.2] - 2024-09-13

- Fix application not starting when `spring-boot-starter-actuator` is present in the classpath.

## [0.1.1] - 2024-07-12

- Internal enhancements.

## [0.1.0] - 2024-04-23

- Added `name` and `authorities` to the authentication response.
- Disable cookies by default.
- Fix partially authenticated users cannot access public apis from the same realm using their authentication token.
- Fix race condition where the order of realms discovery could lead to unstable behaviour.
- Improve tests.
- Improve docs.

## [0.0.9] - 2024-03-16

- Handle the scenario when the user attempts to authenticate while already fully authenticated.

## [0.0.8] - 2024-03-16

- Align `SecurityRealmAuthentication` and `SecurityRealmAnonymousAuthentication` with the built-in `Authentication` objects behaviours to increase
  compatibility.
- Register a null `AuthenticationManagerResolver` to prevent Spring Boot form configuring a default
  in-memory `UserDetailsService` (`InMemoryUserDetailsManager`).

## [0.0.7] - 2024-03-16

- added properties metadata.
- fix token in `Authorization` header not detected if the word `Bearer` is present.

## [0.0.6] - 2024-03-16

- fix `SecurityRealmAuthentication` unable to accept authorities set of subtypes of `GrantedAuthority`.
- fix auto configurations.

## [0.0.5] - 2024-03-16

- Annotation driven implementation. Refer to README file for examples.
- Added `permitRealm` security expression to check for the authenticated realm.
- Authentication is now stateless, using JWT tokens passed in the `Authorization` request header. This drops the logout api, and the `principal` in
  `SecurityRealmAuthentication`.
- Now the authentication endpoint returns all the details in the body (token, realm, error, next authentication step), instead of headers.
- Other minor enhancements and cleanups.
- Tests: enhancements.
- Docs: enhancements.

## [0.0.4] - 2023-12-30

- support joining JPA sessions in the authentication handler. Meaning annotating the authentication handler with `@Transactional` is now possible.

## [0.0.3] - 2023-12-23

- Create a default `SecurityFilterChain` and injects the multi realm support into it if the application does not already have one.
- Internal enhancements.

## [0.0.2] - 2023-12-23

- Support Spring Security 6.
- Minimum Java is now 17 instead of 21.
- Support any type of `SecurityContextRepository`. By default, this library creates a bean of `HttpSessionSecurityContextRepository` if you don't already have
  one.
- New feature: added the ability to define public apis per realm without the need to access and update the `SecurityFilterChain` manually.
  This is helpful if your application is huge, and you want to define public apis in segregated modules without the need to define them in a central place.
- Internal enhancements.

## [0.0.1] - 2023-12-23

First release

